welcome everyone to this week's IPL
desync meeting it's June 15th 2020 and
as every week we go home of the stuff
that we've done in the past week and
planned to do and then discuss any open
items there might be and I need to find
my heck paired em so in the past week I
haven't done that much I made sure what
I actually did I think I did a bit of
Charles fruit stuff as well but most
notable for us is that the block if hypr
is almost done still in review it gets a
bit distracted in the review by random
things but I hope that eventually I will
get there and so slowly getting there
and the block if I should be there soon
um and then it's basically what I really
wanted to get in and then I really have
to look like what I'm doing next
probably something like look into
schemas or something MOC yes I don't
think I've done anything else on it for
the last week so that's it for me
next on my list is PDF in a bit so last
week wrote and Michael gave me a little
simple project to add something too low
to CLI which turned out not to be a
simple little project so it turns out
that we basically have to shorten specs
for selectors now one is what we had
in the shorthand or schema specification
the other one is the one the two most
working on neither of them is very CLI
friendly at all number one number two it
turned out that we do not have a good
story or selectors to a point with
recursion and we spoke a lot about this
with Michael I will try to write up
something like more formal what the hold
ups were but long story short basically
will end up not doing selectors at all
for the consideration of CLI evidence
that will do basic passing we had with a
deliberately limited character set and a
little bit further in the meeting who
will have to circle back to that
basically if I am not using characters
that for example Eric wants to use for
something else
based on this write-up earlier today so
there is that and that pretty much took
most of the week because if you want to
understand why people different when
Eric's not here it's still complicated
so that was my big all right next on my
list is Eric yeah but in my defense I
got it to work so basically correct so
good job so I spent a bunch of time off
in the corner tinkering around with
cogent stuff and also doing a little bit
of a change of pace it's been some time
poking around on experimental projects
for what it would be like to actually be
sumer of some of this code gen stuff
I've been working on and I don't know if
I have a ton of finished thoughts to
report from that other than it was
certainly a thought-provoking so I'm
going to be doing a little more review
of
how these systems work when you get like
code from lots of different packages to
me and I have some new design questions
to explore the future so that's fun
the Cochin Megadeth branch that's been
out for quite a while now had
accumulated over 100 commits by the end
and I have now landed that on master
there is also a nice table and read me
for future completeness it contains
check marks
it also contains X's there's still lots
more to go there but it's in single
earth master again so like small sigh of
relief there and that is my main
progressions for the week I also did
some speculating about path things which
I should turn into exploration report
documents that could be shared but not
all of that was guaranteed good ideas
Adamson like we'll see if any of that
goes somewhere maybe more news on that
later it's about it next on my list is
Michael hey I was just reading up all my
notes um ok so I got to write a lot of
code last week that's awesome um okay so
just multi formats the interface work is
done it's complete now other than moving
to USM that literally normal thing that
happened in moving the ESM there were
there was some some side questing
involved in getting coverage working
turns out that because in because of
nodejs ESM is actually provided by v8
you can no longer hook into the module
system and just transpile all of the
code two random things which is how
covered was implemented before um so
have to use the native v8 tools for
coverage tool called c8 and there are
some corners of that that aren't quite
up to par yet but it's working enough
for us to rely on it and to use it so I
moved the the hundreds tool that I wrote
and a lot of our cover checking to see
eight the nice thing about it because
it's native it's way faster then than
the Istanbul and yce coverage tools
that's great that's all working now I
improve the github action quite a bit so
now we do matrix for all of our tests
and tests on 112 that gauge is 12 and
forum stato point well there appreciate
that so anyway that's all working now
it's a great piece of github automation
I have now decided that I am I have
enough of these like action animal files
for like my way of doing build test and
relief in publish phases that are
impossible to keep them sink that I'm
now writing a tool to just keep all of
these in sync across all the repos that
I have them in so that's what I'm
working on right now okay also all the
dag codecs have been ported to the dance
multi-format stuff except for dag people
yeah I wanted to wait until some more
time because he's been a bunch of
awesome look there to pare it down to
the data model and I don't want to
forget until that is all complete we
also have plugins for every hashing
function that we had in multi hashing
async now so but is multi-format stuff
is is all there now and it's totally
usable as long as you're comfortable
migrating to es mr so that's good
I started working on migrating GS block
over to it that's almost done the test
passing we'll coverage there's just a
few atoms to work out I need to expose
some some endpoints that already have
some codecs loaded and I've got updated
Doc's and a couple other things but
other than that it's going pretty well
and I think that's all that there is
from and I was also like doing manager
stuff all week but rod you're up next
I am sorry I was late okay it's so a
shouldn't week for me probably holiday
and and yeah just
that little things again lonely those
weeks but the main highlights were
Bitcoin docks there's a pull request
with my work in progress it's tedious
work busy
progress and the other thing I
encountered was see boards noticeable
strictness thing which I thought we were
done with but it was an issue in bork a
suitable person somebody filed and
that's if you know 47 turns out that
book has a will pass multiple top-level
objects in a row as an implicit array
and yes I feel the taxi boy is doing
this and only fetching the first object
so if you have a dag seat bought object
block then and you and you can have
multiple top level objects just smush
together we without a container so I
introduced poor quest for the specs to
say that's not allowed for the XE board
and poor request the to jeaious take
Siebel codex to fix that that was that
was me
thanks Chris is there anything you want
to share start consuming the rust IP LD
stuff since oh I just finished kind of
like the thing I needed on my side
before I could start consuming it so
I'll be switching over duck
so I provide some feedback I guess you
did ask me look at the multi flat stuff
so I look at that and see if I have yeah
so so in case you start looking to rust
I fell d surely check out the kernel
only open PR because like that's the
let's see a major change that gets in
and so it just makes sense to basically
base it on that one because like it's
you
actually getting in and but this will
hopefully lend this week so yeah cool
yeah so I'm happy to get feedback
because I get still like it's like based
on my usage and usage from from David
the other orphans kind of like yeah
pretty vague if it's a good idea or not
what we are doing and so it's good to
get feedback and just check to see how
it really works in real world
applications so that's it's great so I'm
good feedback end and certainly so
certainly in Russ I could lead nothing
is set in stone so I'm like I'm happy to
change basically everything so that's
it's cool cool yeah anything else I
think Peter wants to chat about the
pathing stuff a bit I guess yeah I
basically want to make sure that
everybody who cares about this so the
actual syntax that I am using for this
it's by link this in the channel last
week the basically I'm allowing
explicitly on the alphanumeric sadat I
can also allow the UNIX double dots and
not allow double slashes the idea here
is that I want to make sure that we are
not closing an avenue to something that
you that some somebody else wants to use
in the same context that I don't know
about that's all
because obviously once we ship this this
is kind of like our first first select
application outside of the web gateway
and you know well Falcone using
selectors in a bunch of places
behind the sea yeah yeah exactly dislike
the first like user-visible aside from
the heat what do we when were you
selectors for in the Gateway well we
have bass oh I can't fast passes are
like specific to I PMS like that's my
point basically I want to make sure that
we're not going to end up with something
that's specific for a foul coin because
we didn't have the the forethought to
just say you know this thing we're not
allowing right now and if you need it
come talk to us because we have the
library yeah so something that came up
in my college air today that is probably
actually shared more broadly than just
my phone call with Eric I think I
already told Peter though we so we need
to work on a path spec we need a spec
for pathing I want to pull this out of
the conversation about selectors like
entirely for a minute and just think
about paths because we continue to like
ship around paths and talk about paths
and we actually don't have a
specification anywhere for what they are
one of the difficulties that I've run
into a few times is that we we continue
to sort of move paths around in terms of
which layer they're addressing so we'll
talk about like paths on an ADL like
like ipfs for instance or application
files like at the FS or Paz Amman ADL
has the data model and they're all kind
of different things and then we have no
kind of clear rules about them and what
the boundaries are
so some things that I would like to see
is a path spec that has a much more
narrow focus scope than selectors so the
paths would only select to one thing
right so they only ever resolve to a
single thing which means that they are
linear and you can reason about them
that way and as we write this spec I
would like to use language about each
particle as being an operation on a node
right as you work your way down the node
tree so that we write this path back
once and then we ran another spec that
says this is how you do pathing on the
data model and this is how these
operations interact with our data model
and then if somebody writes in a DL or
something as an application and they
want to use our paths that have other
interpretations like how ipfs does they
can do that and make those decisions at
their level so yeah that's a kind of
food for thought it seems like the idea
earlier today but now they didn't have
time to think about it maybe doesn't
okay cool can you I give a couple
examples where you use these pazzo
recalled hearing that or reading about
that so I was trying to understand
better yeah so a couple places that
these pads are already implemented so
these pads are implemented I believe in
the dag API but also in TFS and also it
as ipfs cut file pads but even in the
dag API there's like a rough kind of
path spec and and what it is is it's
just like a bunch of you can think of it
as just like a slash separated array
values and when they happen to be
numbers their offsets in a list and when
they are strings lookups on objects
essentially sorry yeah Maps so it's
really just a way to say like okay I
have some kind of uh field view graph
somewhere and I want to traverse through
it to hit a particular point and so
here is like a string that gives you the
path to that thing and there's there's
like we should talk we we should think
about I don't think that we need to talk
about it right now but we should
definitely think about how broad we want
that speck to get like I don't know if
we actually want to dig into really
fancy matching criteria or anything like
that
but lunch at Chris is blowing we should
also talk about Suri
we should also talk about why this thing
exists because it's still like ipfs is
one thing but what other consumer needs
a past big you know are we are we going
overboard here oh yeah so I mean like
this this came up like this like in the
last few weeks just because like we we
need in the Lotus command line we need a
way to say in the retrieval market go
and get me this file out of a car file
and you need to be able to pass at a
path which is basically relative to the
content route of the car file that pads
into that car file to resolve to an IP
fs5 and so like this is lecture like
relatively simple in in the car files
that we wrote for Dumbo drop because
it's always just like an offset in an
array and that's it but you can imagine
like other structures where you you have
like more complicated graphs on top of a
bunch of files and servers into little
bit more yeah I see that yeah Peter just
posted like a good example in the chat
I'm like what what a really basic path
looks like yeah but that say we need to
be clear here that with two things with
its elitism has we still have to make a
case that paths as something distinct is
something we care about maybe selectors
does everything because I know we bring
this package run DFS but maybe we don't
need paths we have selected so this is
something that like actually came up in
this work right is that the way that
selectors are designed is that
they are broad pattern-matching over a
graph that resolve to any number of
nodes right so once you're looking at a
selector particular parse selector it
doesn't have a logical end like it's not
linear
you can't like up to end something to a
selector because there's no end right
like it's it's very similar to grass QL
right like if somebody was like handed
you a graphical query and you were like
oh I want to append something to it like
there's no place to append it to like
the selection criteria various places
throughout the graph right so selectors
are like this just like kind of mega
thing in fact like what what I would
like to see actually is selector is
somewhere once we have a good selector
which we sorry once we have a good
spectra paths for the selector spec to
leverage the path back so you can put
the pads in selectors to make them a
little bit easier to write but selectors
yeah they're they're not constrained
enough for us to use them in certain
places like like in this case this has
to resolve to a single file so we have
to know that this is owned this is a
linear traversal that resolves to one
point and we don't have that like
anywhere else whether clarification
though when you say it is there's also a
single file even this is ambiguous
because that's the result of the graph
of the file or the root of the sorry
yeah that's what I mean I was just
imprecise like it was not up for debate
what it needs to do it needs to result
right I'm not saying that it's up for
debate I'm basically pointing out how
easy it is to you know get that drunk
idea with the same language is so is it
true that path is basically a subset of
the selector and do you think about that
way because we're such a creature
multiple knows a path you only return
exactly one is that correct
so I think this subset thing can be
misleading because on the one hand it's
true I'm like if he finds that way of
looking at it useful then great it's
true and you don't use it but the thing
that Michael said about not being able
to then like you can't append to a
selector that's not a definable block is
one major distinction right whereas you
clearly can append to a path and I
actually will end up using paths when
I'm implementing selectors and
traversals because say I'm doing some
traversal over a large piece of graph
and I'm evaluating a selector as I do
this right at every point in my
traversal I will have on my stack a path
and just in half right so it's like it
is arguably a subset but it's a very
useful subset and at any point I think
it's particularly useful to be able to
take that path and serialize it like I
want to be able to printf debug my way
through these situations and hopefully
that string that comes out of my printf
debugs that should also be a reasonable
thing for me to reinterpret as a path
again in a way that I can use that as an
instruction to make a specific traversal
to a specific point so some of the parts
that we're missing right now like all of
our libraries that exists they do this
thing where like you've got a path on
the stack and something you're products
we haven't defined all the escaping
basically and I think that's something
that we all agree that we need to do
soon and that kind of goes back to my
question that I want to make sure that
I'm not eating an escape that you get in
mind
and I have so is the so are we so as
this world is for ficon basically is it
it's a clear that we use paths that
operate on the on the IPL the objects
and not like having a PFS style path
because like if you want half of how you
normally give it just the it's very
clear yeah it's very clear because the
spec interprets segments that are only
numeric as indexes to an array which IP
address does not do yes okay
no but I mean like it's so also like for
the use case in for five critically so
is it clear that those won't be fine it
won't be file passed but yeah yeah so
like so just like really super important
like anything is super important because
like I can see that yeah there might be
people that would like to have I plot
these IP fest I'll pass yeah yeah but
here's the thing right like the the
inner up an integration story of IP FSM
and Lotus CLI is separate enough that
you really wouldn't make that mistake
right like if you put a file into file
clone with Lotus it like just wraps it
up into a car file for you and it's one
thing and then like there's this command
that like just works with that and if
you're if you're generating car files
and like your own graphs and putting
them in then you're gonna want to do
like you're gonna want to use this
command line flag to pad into it there's
there's no point at which like you you
hand like a directory to the Lotus CLI
and it like does all that stuff for you
like it's actually really really minimal
right now and the more advanced stuff
it's like people people are actually
like exporting a car file and ipfs
loading up that car file and then like
taking that car home and they get back
to IP address yeah so it's it's pretty
clear and I mean we're gonna have to
document it well as well
okay cool and this also just needs to be
documented well across style coin
because even beyond the little CLI the
retrieval market is taking selectors in
order to do selection into these car
files and if they do contain big UNIX
nest directories the they're like that
the algorithms for traversing like ipfs
directories is not actually in file coin
in Lotus so that's not going to be
supportive
okay cool all right
is there anything else if not then we've
reached the targeted length of half an
hour that's cool yeah cool then goodbye
everyone and see you all next week
[Music]